there's a lot of complaining in
international events that na doesn't
have their own identity or we're not
willing to innovate and then when people
innovate like you shouldn't be bashed of
course there are different people that
have different opinions on the internet
but I think as a whole new strategies
should be encouraged so second day of
week five of na LCS I'm joined right now
by bjergsen himself talk a little bit
about how things are going with TSM
coverage of course presented by Omni /
bjergsen how are things going with TSM I
feel like you guys are under the radar
normally everyone's like TSM TSM TSM but
this split it seems like you guys are
kind of doing your thing doing another
thing but not very well I would say we
definitely have some struggles and yeah
it just feels like we are trying to
figure out exactly how we want to play
the game or it not as much how we want
to play the game but just how we want to
come to that conclusion the game and and
execute that as a team there's a lot of
there's a lot of voices and there's a
lot of overthinking in the game rather
than just simplifying it and getting
done so it seems like everyone is
struggling though it's not just you guys
it seems like like I cannot think of a
team where I'm like that's a good team
right now yeah I think it also is with
the meta because usually if the meta is
really stable your macro doesn't have to
be as good because you're playing these
champions like okay we know how this
matchup works and this champion of this
champion but there's so much variety and
what you can pick and play that you have
to be better at adapting in the draft
adapting within the game based on how
lanes are going or maybe playing against
something you aren't used to or playing
something that you haven't practiced as
much so you need to have a better
foundation that you can so you can play
different champions and still be able to
come to a good conclusion on how to play
the game speaking of all the teams
learning the minute I just interviewed
doublelift he was he said he was feeling
frustrated because the community seems
to like he was looking at clg's game
against them their draft he thought that
draft was really interesting he was
really frustrated to see the community
just like kind of yell at CLG because
they tried something unconventional do
you have that same sense is it hard for
teams to try non-conventional stuff
right now because there's like this
weird backlash or it's just like they
get flamed if they lose
I think the backlash is stupid because
there's like there's a lot of
complaining in international events that
na doesn't have their own identity or
we're not willing to innovate and then
when people innovate like you shouldn't
be bashed of course they're different
people that had different opinions on
the internet but I think as a whole new
strategies should be encouraged like we
pulled out the Tulia funnel and failed
horribly I mean we had a good early game
but we weren't able to close out and I
think that's something we should do we
should try something new that we thought
could work and see if we can execute it
same with CLG they didn't even even
crazier strategy and they just weren't
able to execute I think and in their
heads I could see how it makes sense
there isn't really any one the Nocturne
can kill in the game Nocturne is a very
high priority champion but honestly I
would like to see more people bringing
out new things and not just copying what
they see from other teams or what they
see from Korea good innovation for the
region I guess yeah I think so because
there are obviously things in na that
people have tried or have seen in
soloqueue that he's late to pop up in
other regions like Wukong has been a
really popular pick and capsules kind of
the first one to pull it out into you
but that's a pick I could have seen
coming in an a also I speaking of that
kind of the opposite we've seen stuff
pop up in other regions and we I feel
like in North America we've seen people
afraid to pull it out like heimerdinger
and I've heard has been hates the idea
of having to play Heimerdinger or just
like he just wants to play the ad
carry's right and we got definitely over
there definitely static special forced
him to do it specialist like position
coach so do you think that there is like
a bit of hesitancy in North America
beside like in picking these champions
that we've seen elsewhere I didn't tell
you recently that he didn't like playing
them or are you talking about his
initial tweet from like back when I got
back but I couldn't happen and I think
myth he said in an interview the sense I
get is that Sven just like does not want
to play others like this he
actually really enjoys it I think he
really enjoys playing the majors I mean
obviously the high rating Heimerdinger
didn't work out well for us and I think
it's a champion that you have to play a
wall around and you have to snowball
well and also we were having a little
bit of trouble on kind of fitting it
into the draft
it's the game we played it we had a lot
of magic damage champions no champion
that could come mundo and eventually we
just got run over by the by the
mundo but I mean I think we have seen a
lot of people trying out stuff like a
bird in air and trying things in other
regions that were including us and
sometimes it's worked and sometimes it
hasn't but I think every team should be
open to experimenting especially in this
meta you can't just say kind of this is
our style this is how we're going to
draft every game because the minute is
so crazy and it's changing rapidly at
the same time what is your take on this
I don't want to go too much past this
weekend on it but I still think that the
conversation around soloqueue na soloq
you players getting the right practice
like trying to get your quote for your
reddit thread now you already gave me
the quote that's the you know innovation
thing where like people should do that
don't worry I I got it every every title
for any interview and reddit right now
is about any so look you hanging bad
quality bad environments the problem the
storylines in na are right now so
somebody like me trying to cover it like
who are we like it's not like echo fox
is going undefeated it's like who's
gonna take down echo fox it's like all
the games are coin flips who knows
what's gonna happen
teams look like teams like Team Liquid
look like amazing at one point time and
like the worst team in the world the
next what am I supposed to do with that
like what questions do you ask about a
everything so fluky the rate but I do
think it is a good conversation to have
right like if North America is sucking
so much and the players think they can't
get to good practice that seems like
something to talk about yeah I agree I
think or there are being looked into
options on how we can get something like
that set up at Romo we can play and try
to figure out it's just gonna be LCS and
Academy players are we gonna bring in
Challenger or masters or diamond players
you know how inclusive is it gonna be
obviously on a lower ping based in LA
but I think I think it's a mix of all
those things that people bring up it's
not just the paying it's not just the
not so serious environment or the not
having so many players that are striving
to be the best or rather striving to
just get really high yellow or be a
stream or be known for being a chore for
fun region or being you know I talked
Sakai and build the following from that
I think that's more so thing in na in
other regions but there's also the
player base and I think all these are
just small symptoms of a
that ends up showing that the big
problem which is I guess how people feel
about any silicon would it be ironic to
you if because let's say the situation
does get solved there's some sort of
tournament realm or some sort of tool
that allows players to practice
high-level and this whole conversation
started because EU players came over
here and talk to NI silico so would
it be great if they call talking about
it forced a conversation that ended up
getting North America better because
they came over to complain yeah sure but
I think also it would benefit you if na
is better and having more competition
because right now I don't think he used
feeling too threatened by na as a whole
and I do still think that the biggest
problem is probably the player base more
so than the ping in soloqueue or the
environment justice if there are more
players that are also going to be more
more serious players are more trauma
players and more of every category of
player and just that league is not as
popular in North America as it is in
other places in the world it's a big
issue I think all right
trying to think of what's going on
behind the scenes at ESO I'm you guys
doing anything cool or interesting these
days no we're just trying not to suck
and not doing super great at that so a
lot of practicing and a lot of I mean
also also spending a little time outside
the game to make sure that we're not
only spending time in a really
high-stress environment where we're
pushing each other that's what I'm
talking about are you doing stuff like
that no we're not really but it's just
the occasional like team dinner or just
hanging out and kind of talking as
friends rather than you know work
environment as teammates because it does
get personal and we have a lot of
arguments with discussions because
that's how it's supposed to be and I
guess how it always isn't the TSM
environment so it's good to kind of come
back down to earth sometimes does that
ever hold you back as like I've talked
to other players who have left and
they're sort of like it is intense on
TSM like everyone is holding each other
such a high standard and sometimes
they're doing it in a very intense way
yeah I mean I think it's there's a lot
of things to it it also is just TSM just
kind of legacy and like one of my
teammates told me recently that he does
feel that kind of pressure like carrying
the TSM legacy whereas I don't feel that
I was much because I've been here for so
long but I can imagine
if I was to come into another really
successful team they've also moved to g2
for example and then I'm carrying their
legacy rather than something I build
myself and that that specific teammate
felt more relief from winning rather
than happy from winning and obviously it
feels really crap to lose so that's also
kind of a mentality thing that we're
trying to tackle because we should be
playing for ourselves as the five
players not not our name not our TSM
we're not the pass of the success that
we've had obviously that will weigh on
me but ideally I wouldn't want that
weighing on how my teammates are playing
practicing and ultimately how we commit
to stuff on stage because I don't think
we're we're just committing to two
fights as much today we were more
willing to just fight whenever we have
the chance but it's not something I
fought in the last two weeks anything
that you would say to any other TSM fans
out there um I mean it just thank you to
all the loyal fans that support us it's
always nice to there's a lot of negative
things out on the internet so when I
come here to LCS and I meet the fans
that support us if we're going to lose
because the roster changes and all these
things I think meeting fans face to face
and kind of getting uh what's it called
getting like a reality check as to who
is following us and who our fans are
because it can be really easy to get
caught up in all the toxic comments so
it's it's nice to meet the loyal fans
here and the fans that write me nice
messages on Twitter and my stream and
things like that so hey thank you so
much for the interview Soren by select
looking for assessing how TSM does the
rest of the split everyone else you can
check out the rest of my coverage of all
things eSports right here on my youtube
channel I want to thank only slash so
much for the support of my content there
on a train right now a train that you
could be on and that's the Travis
trained to get on that train subscribe
to the youtube channel hit up my twitch
we're stopping at all the different
stops all right this is a train and it's
going what's going far so get on the
train and ride it ride that Travis train